h2. Problem Statement:

My shots are well composed, but when I watch them together they're repetitive and do not tell me a complete story. What am I missing?

h2. Background:

A successful shot is more than a well composed image. A shot with a goal progresses the story along and provides specific information that supports the goal of the sequence.

Each shot type has specific goals it's best suited to achieve. You may be able to explain your location with other shot types, but the wide shot is the easiest option to do it successfully. For example, wide shots are filmed far away from a subject. This distance often provides a clear image of the area around the subject, which is why it's effective to depict the location.
<hr/>
Every shot type's goal also answers a specific question about the story as well. By shooting a complete set of shot types, you can allow yourself to focus on a separate part of the story with each shot, and as a group they will tell a complete story.

Only try to accomplish one goal per shot when you're first learning. A sequence is more successful with two shots that each do a good job of achieving one goal, then to have one shot that does a bad job of achieving two goals.

It's best to experiment with this at first, and expect to fail more often then it works. Don't get discouraged though. It is a challenging skill and each goal you add to a shot makes it significantly harder to be successful.

h2. Solution

Now that we understand why we have shot goals lets review some examples of the shot types. What goal they're best suited to, and give you some tips to help you be successful.

h3. Wide Shot

Example: Video Clips A 

Goal: Shows the location / scene of a story.

TIPS:
* Typically used once in a scene, usually at the beginning.
* Has a sense of the feel of the location.
* To use multiple times you should be showing a dramatic change to the location. For example, an empty town square to a full town square is a successful use of two location shots.

h3. Long Shot

Example: Video Clips B

Goal: Showcases the characters and how they interact with the location.

TIPS:
* Best used to highlight a subject's actions.
* Effective for including multiple subjects.
* It’s common to allow for more headroom than in either medium or close up shots.

h3. Medium Shot

Example: Video Clips C

Goal: Directs the audience to focus entirely on one or two characters, may not provide an understanding of the location.

TIPS:
* Headroom is very important to being successful.
* Eye line is very important to being successful.
* Good at showing a subjects body language.

h3. Close up Shot

Example: Video Clips D

Goal: Forces the audience to focus entirely on a single character, encourages the emotion of the character.

TIPS:
* Capturing emotion and feeling is your primary objective.
* Pay particular close attention to the eyes of your subject.
* Don't worry about incorporating the environment in this shot. 

h3. Detail Shot

Example: Video Clips E

Goal: Showcases an interesting detail, often focusing directly on an important action.

TIPS:
* A subjects hands are usually good to start with, especially when performing an action.
* Best used to highlight details lost in wider shots.
* Focus and frame for the specific details you want, cut out everything else.

h2. Things to Remember:

* Consider the Hitchcock rule from video basics when you're considering your goal. Ask yourself if the most important element, and thus the goal of your shot is clearly visible.
* The rule of thirds is there to help you arrange the elements in your frame so that they're successful. Use the four point system from it to ensure your goals are clear.
* Often times, when you're first recording shots with single goals they will feel "obvious" or "simple". When you watch them with the rest of your shots though, you'll see how each shot having a specific purpose builds to tell a complete story.

h2. Multimedia Details

Multimedia 1

Type: 5 video clips
Location in the text: (VIDEO CLIPS A)
Script (if necessary): T B D
Detailed Description: 10 second example clips of wide shot

Multimedia 2

Type: 5 video clips
Location in the text: (VIDEO CLIPS B)
Script (if necessary): T B D
Detailed Description: 10 second example clips of long shot

Multimedia 3

Type: 5 video clips
Location in the text: (VIDEO CLIPS C)
Script (if necessary): T B D
Detailed Description: 10 second example clips of medium shot

Multimedia 4

Type: 5 video clips
Location in the text: (VIDEO CLIPS D)
Script (if necessary): T B D
Detailed Description: 10 second example clips of close up shot

Multimedia 5

Type: 5 video clips
Location in the text: (VIDEO CLIPS E)
Script (if necessary): T B D
Detailed Description: 10 second example clips of detail shot

h2. Quiz

Put some text here about the quiz.
You need to get 3 answers correct!

h3. Question 1

Question: How do I help ensure my shots are successful?
Answer 1: Move the shot around a lot. 
Answer 2: Make every shot look the same.
Answer 3: Any shot that looks good is successful.
Answer 4: Give your shot a goal.
Correct Answer: 4

h3. Question 2

Question: How many goals should I try to accomplish in a shot?
Answer 1: 0
Answer 2: 1
Answer 3: 4
Answer 4: 12
Correct Answer: 2
 
h3. Question 3

Question: What is the goal of a long shot?
Answer 1: Highlight the characters cool shoes.
Answer 2: Showcases the characters and how they interact with the location.
Answer 3: Depict the characters haircut.
Answer 4: Showcase the country the subject is from.
Correct Answer: 2

h3. Question 4

Question: What shot should you pay particular close attention to the eyes of your subject?
Answer 1: Long
Answer 2: Medium
Answer 3: Close Up
Answer 4: Detail
Correct Answer: 3

h3. Question 5

Question: Are you awesome?
Answer 1: True
Answer 2: False
Correct Answer: False

Total Answers to get correct: 3
