h1. Problem Statement

h2. What makes good reporting? It must be fact-based rather than based on opinion, rumor or personal interest.

!1.png!

<hr/>

h1. Background

Reporting begins with answering six basic questions about an issue: 

* Who? 
* What? 
* Where? 
* When?
* Why? 
* and How? 

Good journalists do some background research when they first start working on a story. Different types of story require different types of reporting and emphasize different elements of the story.

<hr/>

Accurate information can be hard to collect, but a few solid facts can go a long way toward informing people about an issue. It is often hard to know whom to trust for information. Good journalist, exercise judgment and common sense in reporting. They also consider sources carefully and are transparent in attribution of where their information came from.

<hr/>

Another challenge is separating fact from opinion. You need to keep your own feelings about an issue in check and respect the audience’s ability to form an opinion based on the accurate information you present.

Examples of Fact and Opinion:

* WHAT
Good: The initiative to bring about a more thorough response to deal with TB/HIV and MDR-TB is being funded by the World Health Organization.
Bad: There will be a new program to help sick people, which will be funded by an NGO.

* WHERE
Good: The match was played on a makeshift former university football practice field outside of Cape Town. 
Bad: The game was not played at the normal stadium. 
 
* WHEN
Good: Originally scheduled for the evening of April 6, 2012, the performance by Miriam Makeba has been moved to April 14.
Bad: The world-recognized musician’s performance was planned for yesterday but has been moved to next week.

* WHY
Good:  The bridge could not withstand the pressure of the rising storm water and collapsed, said a spokesman from the Army Corp of Engineers.
Bad:  The bridge was poorly maintained because of government corruption, so it fell apart in the storm.

* HOW
Good: People began gathering early in the day and by evening hundreds had collected at the square chanting, waving signs and demanding the health minister’s resignation following the deaths last week of 13 children due to a tainted flu vaccine. 
Bad: Many people came and shouted for the health minister to be fired, blaming him for the children’s deaths.

<hr/>

h1. Solution

When reporting a story ask yourself if you have collected the information common citizens unfamiliar with the issue will need to understand it. This begins with answering five essential questions. In English they are called the Five Ws:

* Who is the story about?
* What happened?
* When did it take place?
* Where did it take place?
* Why did it happen?

<hr/>

Properly asked and answered the Five Ws will help journalists to collect the basic facts required to build a solid story. Be as specific as possible. The more detail the better. It’s one thing to write that there were security forces at the demonstration. It may be more informative to make it clear they were interior ministry troops as opposed to regular army.

Examples of properly asked and answered Five Ws:

* What Happened? 
In summary and precisely, explain what took place. Who exactly was involved? How many? What was the outcome? Is property damaged? Who won? Is anyone dead? Be specific.

* Where Did it Happen? 
Provide the country, province and city. The political affiliation, ethnicity and religion of people in the area may – or may not – be important. Is it an urban area? A rural area? A military compound? 

* When Did it happen? 
Give the exact date – day of the month, month and year. If season is important or if the fact that it is a holiday or event like a ceasefire is relevant include that information.  Was it day or night?

* Why Did it Happen? 
What caused the event? What is the background? Avoid speculation. Rely on reported fact. Was there a single thing that set it off or did it build slowly? Was it planned? If so, by who? Who paid for it? Who arranged it?

* How Did it Happen?  
Describe the progression of the event – observation is different than opinion. How did it proceed? Did it start slowly and build? Did it happen suddenly? Was there a clear turning point?

<hr/>

For short dispatches it is often helpful to think in terms of collecting “factoids.” Factoids are the backbone of good reporting. Factoids are tidbits of factual information that you can use to make sure you are answering who, what, where, when and why to the best of your ability.

* Numbers and stats are factoids: How many? What time did it start?
* Details about the issue are factoids. Describe briefly of how it – whatever it may be – works. Where did it start? When will it take effect? Who is involved? Who opposes it? Who supports it?
* Observations are factoids. Physical descriptions are an often- overlooked but powerful type of factoid. What does the room look like? What is he wearing? What is the scene?
* Quotes are factoids: Quotes dramatize and personalize your point. Quotes should typically be statements of opinion – how the source feels -- rather than fact (it’s the FACT that it was said that’s valuable to the journalist).
* More involved or longer stories may require more reporting with a wider variety of sources before and after an event.

<hr/>

!2.mp4(Example of a longer story with a wider variety of sources)!

More involved or longer stories may require more reporting with a wider variety of sources before and after an event.

<hr/>

h1. Things to Remember

Access and time are the biggest challenges to good reporting. Personal bias is another. All can often be minimized by talking to other journalists and looking at coverage of the story from a variety of sources. It is important to form a network of colleagues you can trust. But, be careful: you do not want to pass along bad information to your readers.

<hr/>

h1. Quiz

Question 1
Question:Which of the choices below are examples of “factoids?" It can be more than one.
Answer 1:Numbers
Answer 2:Quotes
Answer 3:Personal opinion
Answer 4:None of the above
Correct Answer:1,2

<hr/>

Question 2
Question:TRUE of FALSE: Who, what, where, when, how, and why are the six basic questions you should try and answer when reporting.
Answer 1:TRUE
Answer 2:FALSE
Correct Answer:1

<hr/>

Question 3
Question:Which are obstacles to better reporting?
Answer 1:Access
Answer 2:Time
Answer 3:Personal bias
Answer 4:All of the above
Correct Answer:4