h1. Problem Statement

h2. I know how to record but Im not sure what kind of story style to use for my project.

!1.png!

<hr/>

h1. Background

Depending on what your story is about and how you want to approach it, there are different styles of audio production and presentation that you can make use of. Sometimes you may find yourself in the middle of an event or a breaking story, which would mean a specific style of audio reporting would be most useful for that situation. Alternatively perhaps you are doing a profile piece or a human interest story involving different witnesses and different voices, which would again call for another approach.

While each situation could be approached in more than 1 way, there is a short list of specific steps and guidelines you can follow in order to best present a specific type of story.

<hr/>

h1. Solution

h2. Breaking News

!2.mp3(Example of a breaking news report)!

A breaking news report (hard news) requires a piece of audio that explains what is happening, summarizing the key points, the main actors, and any information that is known so far. Because such reports are about something that may still be going on, sometimes there will be unanswered questions that will be addressed in follow-up reports. Breaking news stories may feature a reporter at the location of the action, with his/her voice explaining what is known so far as well as what can be seen on the ground for that vantage point. In some cases a breaking news story can/must be introduced from a remote location based on second hand reports when it is not possible to be there. It's crucial that you will at least cover the following questions: Who, What, Where, Why, When and How.

<hr/>

h2. Events

!3.mp3(Example of an event report)!

Unlike breaking news stories, events are usually scheduled which allows a reporter to prepare how they want to tell a story beforehand. An audio report about an event should highlight the who, what, and why information. It is also useful to have interviews or comments from participants who can give additional information or observations. Events often have main participants in the form of honored guests or keynote speakers, whom you can contact before the event to schedule an interview. Even if you decide not to use the audio from those interviews, it is good to do them and have that audio as an option for your final production piece.

As with most types of stories, to report on an event you can use one voice as the narrator explaining what is happening and why. The narrator could either be someone in a studio or someone on location introducing interviews and other information.

<hr/>

h2. Feature

!4.mp3(Example of a featured story)!

A feature story means dedicating more time to focus on one topic. It also means doing more research and presenting as much background information as possible to further tell a story. That story should also include audio from key actors related to the topic. Have multiple sources and a cross section of voices speaking on that topic based on experience and observations can also increase the quality of a feature story.

Features can be carried out in a few different styles, which include the use of narration to explain background information and introduce different parts and interviews within the story.

<hr/>

h1. Things to Remember

!5.mp3(Example of a story using multiple contributors)!

* Be sure to have first hand observations and interviews whenever possible.
* It is good to have more than one voice in a story.
* Include different types of sources in your story.
* Be sure to present the classic answers to who, what, when and why in a story.
* Be clear and focus on a single primary topic in each story.

<hr/>

h1. Quiz

Question 1 
Question:The main purpose of a breaking news story is
Answer 1:To make a long detailed audio report including extensive research and many interviews.
Answer 2:To present an honored guest who is speaking at a special conference.
Answer 3:To summarize what information is available regarding something that is happening now and who's outcome is still not completely known and will require followup reports.
Answer 4:None of the above.
Correct Answer:3

<hr/>

Question 2 
Question:The advantage of producing an audio report about an event is.
Answer 1:You can prepare in advance, doing research and scheduling interviews related to the event.
Answer 2:You have no time to do research, just say what you know.
Answer 3:It is not possible to do interviews at an event.
Answer 4:All of the above.
Correct Answer:1

<hr/>

Question 3
Question:Narration can be used in what type of audio story:
Answer 1:Feature
Answer 2:Event
Answer 3:Breaking News
Answer 4:All of the above
Correct Answer:4