h1. Selecting and verifying sources

h1. Problem Statement

How do you develop and think about sources?

h1. Background

A good reporter is only as good as his sources. Your sources can be people, documents or other news outlets. Information from your sources may appear in your video. Your sources may provide background-only information that you use to investigate your story and confirm through on-the-record sources.
 
In addition to sources journalists identify at the scene of a news story, good journalists develop sources and contacts they can reach out to repeatedly.

h1. Solution

The most common source is a person you interview for a specific story. These sources come in three general categories as. Good news stories have at least two of the three, sometimes all three.
 
*Reactionary sources* - people on the scene and immediately involved or affected by the issue. Victims of a bombing. People who are buying less (or not) as a result of the poor economy.

*Informational sources* - people, often officials, who can give you hard facts about the specific event. An army officer or a hospital spokesperson in the event of a fire. An NGO spokesperson about the election or new financial regulation.

*Authorative or Expert Voice* - people who can give you a big-picture overview of the issue that your story is about. Scholars, researchers, consultants. Somebody from Doctors without Borders or an international medical expert on a story about lack of medical supplies at a local hospital, especially if this is part of a national trend.

*Documents* are often excellent sources. Physical documents can be found at government offices, libraries, and NGO reports. A huge trove of documents is now available online. Information from documentation can provide an authoritative or expert voice, by giving the position of the organization on an important issue.
 
Many journalists now set up *RSS feeds* online that allow them to track news of an event. RSS stands for really simple syndication.  Most large news and information sites set up an RSS feed.
 
*Social networking sites* like Facebook or YouTube are sources. Groups exist around every conceivable topic. This is a good place to do research and conduct interviews. It is important to identify yourself as a journalist when using social sites as reporting tools. It is also important to be transparent about your sources with editors and news organizations.


h1. Things to Remember

*Controversy creates difficulties*
The more controversial the issue, the more difficult it is to find good sources.Always ask yourself if you have the best possible sources for your story -- are they the most qualified? -You should also- ask yourself if you have a good variety of sources -- are all sides of the issue represented?
 
*Transparency is key.*
Your sources should be clearly and completely identified. For safety reasons some sources should not be identified, but this is a last resort. Be sure and explain why a source is anonymous if you are forced to use one. Sources should never be made up or a composite of two or more real sources.

*Background* 
Other sources may choose to give you information only on background. That means you cannot identify or quote them in your reporting. Background sources can be excellent way to learn about your topic. For example, a background source in an important government ministry can tip you to stories before they happen and give you important information to use in your reporting. It is important to always respect the “background only” agreement with a source.

*Attribution*

Attribute to the source whenever you use someone else’s words or ideas, whether printed or spoken unless it is common knowledge. Attribute information taken from news organization and provide a link if doing so would give the readers additional valuable information. Do not use exact copy from a press release without attribution. Strive to go beyond the press release by relying on other sources. Do not use material from obscure website or encyclopedia sites such as Wikipedia without confirming the information at the original source. 

h1. Multimedia Details

Multimedia 1

Type:
Location in the text: *EXERCISE*: A “select the best source” game. Multiple choice options that require participants to match particular kinds of questions and answers with the best sources. Or, they are given topics for three stories and have to identify which sources would be most appropriate for the story and for providing information.
Script (if necessary):
Detailed Description:


Multimedia 2

Type: *EXERCISE*: A list of different kinds of potential sources by title (witness, police officer, scholar, etc.) and participants need to match the source with the best source category
Location in the text:
Script (if necessary):
Detailed Description:


Multimedia 3

Type:
Location in the text:
Script (if necessary):
Detailed Description:


Multimedia 4

Type:
Location in the text:
Script (if necessary):
Detailed Description:

h1. Test

Question 1

Question: If you want to know how many people were injured in an earthquake you might ask which of the following types of sources
Answer 1: A reactionary source: A father whose house was destroyed
Answer 2: An authorative source: A plate tectonics expert who specializes in the causes of earthquakes
Answer 3: An informational source: a Red Crescent Society doctor or provincial police chief
Answer 4: None of the above
Correct Answer: 3

Question 2

Question: TRUE or FALSE:  A background source is someone who agrees to speak to you off the record. Meaning, his or her name will not appear in the story. To be truthful, it’s OK to publish the name.
Answer 1: TRUE
Answer 2: FALSE
Correct Answer: FALSE


Question 3

Question: In addition to talking to people, research and source documents are an important part of good journalism. Which are good sources for this kind of reporting
Answer 1: RSS feeds
Answer 2: Studies produced by non-profit organizations or government
Answer 3: Social sites, especially those that produce statistics about readers and viewers
Answer 4: All of the above
Correct Answer: All of the above

Number of Questions to pass the Quiz: ?