h1. Problem Statement

h2. What are the advantages of the different content sites available?

!1.png!

<hr/>

h1. Background

Distribution platforms vary in their nature, specifications and requirements. It’s important to keep your options in mind when you are deciding where you would like to put your video for the most impact.

New sites are started and others disappear constantly, so this information is only a guideline to get you going.

<hr/>

h1. Solution

!2.png!

There are hundreds of commercial sites which allow you to publish your video online. One of the major disadvantages of many commercial platforms is that ads are placed next to your video. Many of these sites operate as online social networks.

<hr/>

!3.png!

There are a number of non-profit video sharing spaces focussed on social justice, environmental or human rights issues.

<hr/>

Be aware of security issues not only for yourself, but for anyone in your videos when you publish them. Once you post a file online, you can never be sure you will be able to remove it. If your content is that risky, it is best to wait until a time it’s safer.

<hr/>

h2. Commercial Sites

!4.png!

YouTube

YouTube is the biggest video sharing site in the world. It's a fantastic way of reaching a large audience. Ensure you have a promotional campaign to direct people to watch your video. Additionally, remember that as there are so many videos on YouTube, it may be harder to reach and engage an audience there than in other spaces.

Some of the problems with YouTube: it can be hard to link people back to your site, and YouTube have used their Terms of Service to remove campaigning videos. In some countries YouTube is blocked.

<hr/>

!5.png!

Blip.tv

blip.tv is the most flexible of all the commercial platforms, and has the fewest limitations on how and where your videos are presented. It also presents your video at a much higher quality than YouTube.

<hr/>

!6.png!

Vimeo

Vimeo has a slick user interface and does a great job of streaming higher quality video. However, it falls severely short in terms of how the videos can be exported and displayed on external sites' aggregators, and of search-friendliness.

<hr/>

!7.png!

Facebook

If you are already running a campaign using Facebook, then sharing video on the site can be very powerful. The videos you post on Facebook are, however, largely limited in availability to the groups or campaigns you're connected with on the site.

<hr/>

!8.png!

Live Leak

A sometimes controversial site that emphasises current events, politics and reality based footage such as war scenes from various parts of the world. [www.liveleak.com]

<hr/>

h2. Non Commercial Sites:

!9.png!

Archive.org

Archive.org contains thousands of digital movies which range from classic full-length films, to daily alternative news broadcasts, to videos of every genre uploaded by Archive.org users. All of these movies are available for download, often in very high resolution, and are freely licensed, so it's also a great place to find footage for use in production.

Archive.org doesn't focus specifically on social change issues but it is a key space used by many advocates and free culture enthusiasts.

<hr/>

!10.png!

EngageMedia

EngageMedia is a non-profit collective providing media tools to activists, campaigners, communities and citizen journalists. You can upload and view videos about social justice and environmental issues. Their primary focus is on the Asia-Pacific region, but video from other places is also welcome. EngageMedia aims to create an online archive of independent video productions using open content licenses and to form a peer network of video makers, educators and screening organisations. Materials are mostly in English, with some in Asian languages.

<hr/>

h1. Other Useful Sites

!11.png!

Qik - Online streaming service.

uStream / LiveStream - Online Streaming service

Transmission cc – International Network of Social Justice Online Video Projects

Clearer Channel – an online video project which encourages viewers to download and transmit video for social change.

IMC Video – International independent media

dotSUB – a site which allows users to translate your videos in different languages using subtitles.

Amara - a site which allows users to subtitle online videos hosted in a variety of locations 

<hr/>

h1. Quiz

Question 1
Question:What are some of the problems of YouTube?
Answer 1:It can be hard to link people back to your site
Answer 2:They have used their Terms of Service to remove videos
Answer 3:In some places YouTube is blocked.
Answer 4:None of the above.
Correct Answer:1,2,3

<hr/>

Question 2
Question:Videos on Facebook are?
Answer 1:Not watched by anyone
Answer 2:Only shown to your family
Answer 3:Limited in availability to the groups or campaigns you’re connected with on the site
Answer 4:Going to be liked a lot
Correct Answer:3

<hr/>

Question 3
Question:What site offer their content free for download, often in very high resolution, and freely licensed?
Answer 1:Facebook
Answer 2:Vimeo
Answer 3:YouTube
Answer 4:Archive.org
Correct Answer:4

<hr/>

Question 4
Question:What site allows users to translate your videos in different languages using subtitles.
Answer 1:DotSUB
Answer 2:Amara
Answer 3:YouTube
Answer 4:Transmission CC
Correct Answer:1,2