h1. Problem Statement

h2. Photographing an event well is one thing. Editing the pictures well is another. What are some tips and concepts to think about when editing pictures for publication?

!1.png!

<hr/>

h1. Background

!2.png!

No matter if you are photographing an event to produce a single image or shooting to produce a more elaborate slideshow, you will shoot many more images than you use. You need to edit your images to select the few that best illustrate the story.

<hr/>

Editing images can take time and requires skill and self-discipline. Editing photos well is about divorcing yourself from your feelings or investment in the work and selecting only the images that convey the story best to your viewer. Just because you worked hard to get a photograph does not make it a good photograph. Just because you recognize the importance of its content does not mean the viewer will see the same thing. If its not in the picture for the viewer to see it is not a picture at all.

<hr/>

h1. Solution

Editing images is often a process of elimination. Select images that are ‘maybes’ and then, based on what you need the photos to do, winnow down to the best. 

* Do not edit into a vacuum. Ask yourself some key questions:
** How many images do you need?
** Who is the audience?
** What does the editor want?

These questions will limit the criteria by which you choose and make editing easier.

<hr/>

h2. Three-step approach to editing pictures

* Step 1 - Identify
* Step 2 - Script
* Step 3 - Sequence & Process


<hr/>

h2. Step 1 - Identify

!3.png!

A first round that includes your strongest images -- Do not worry about the specifics of your story. Pick images that convey core emotional and graphic strength. Think most about the eye-grabbing qualities of the images. The number should relate loosely to how you will use the images. If you are looking for a single, final image, select fewer than if you plan to assemble a slideshow. You may have several images of the same subject from different angles. You may have an assortment of images that illustrate the same idea. That is OK for now.


<hr/>

h2. Step 2 - Script

!4.png!

Think the story through -- Now that you have a narrower assortment of images, begin to decide HOW you will use the photos. If you are looking for a single image, identify a photo that conveys the most information -- and the most drama -- to illustrate your specific story. You may opt for a portrait of someone quoted in an accompanying text. You may opt for a photo that symbolizes the emotion of an event, a person waving a flag and shouting. You may opt for a photo that is a literal summary, a person casting a ballot. If you are editing for slideshow, you will want an assortment of images based on the kind of slideshow you want to do (see the photo essay section). Remove images that convey the same information -- and choose only the best one. If you have several similar images, choose only the best -- the one that most clearly visualizes subject, context and emotion in a clear and understandable way.

<hr/>

h2. Step 3 - Sequence & Process

!5.png!

If you are editing for a single image (or a handful of images from which an editor will choose). You need to crop, size, color correct and caption these images. The specifics of this are covered in the section on post production. If you are building a slideshow you need to sequence the final images. Remember: if an image is not advancing your story, it is hurting it. Select images around the important elements of the story, archive images that either do not advance the story or repeat other, stronger images. Sequence the images in a way that is chronological -- do not move from night to day and back in an unnatural order. Be conscious of the ‘flow’ of images, letting color move the viewer from one image to the next, move from a tight shot to wide shot and then back to a tight shot. Like the single image, these images must be cropped, sized, color corrected and captioned.

<hr/>

h1. Things to Remember

!6.png!

The editing techniques outlined above assumes the luxury of time to edit. With some breaking news events or last-minute deadline assignments, you may have to edit on the fly. Meaning, make a quick selection and post the image(s) on the spot. You can always replace these images later with a more carefully selected and processed image.

<hr/>

When covering stories about disaster or conflict you should be sensitive to how you use images of violence, injury, death or people grieving. Images of children require special care. Images need to be graphic enough to tell a story truthfully. At the same time, they should not be gratuitous. Photographers should not shy away from shooting graphic images if they accurately tell the story. However, publishing them can be another issue. Photographers and the publications they shoot for need to consider the audience, the importance of the story and the impact the images will have when publishing graphic images. When confronted with scenes of violence or death, good photographers will shoot images that are both graphic as well as more symbolic to give editors a choices about what to publish.

<hr/>

h1. Quiz

Question 1
Question:Which of the following are characteristics of good editing?
Answer 1:You should pick the images you want to use all at once to save time.
Answer 2:Caption everything and then select only the images you want.
Answer 3:The literal information in each image is more important than its emotional or graphic value and more important than how the image might work as part of a slideshow.
Answer 4:None of the above.
Correct Answer:4

<hr/>

Question 2
Question:TRUE or FALSE: When photographing a breaking news event, you may not have time initially to edit your images. Post one or two and then replace them later with better images.
Answer 1:TRUE
Answer 2:FALSE
Correct Answer:2


<hr/>

Question 3
Question:Editing is a process of elimination. Which of the things below should you be thinking about when editing (it can be more than one)
Answer 1:Which are my strongest images irrespective of the specific story?
Answer 2:Are there any redundant images in my slideshow -- images that do not advance the story or show the viewer something new?
Answer 3:Is there a nice ‘flow’ to the images as the viewer clicks from one to the next?
Answer 4:All of the above.
Correct Answer:4
