h1. Problem Statementh2. How do I structure my story to include a central question, climax and resolution? <hr/>h1. BackgroundIn the preceding lessons, you learned about the basic structural components of story: central question, climax, and resolution. You need to organize these elements in your story for maximum impact. This is done with a structure called your story arc or sometimes arc of tension. For shorter stories and dispatches, the arc will be very simple, organized chronologically, for example. <hr/>h1. SolutionA powerful story moves from an introduction of a central question, to a climax where the central question is answered, and then to a resolution where the impact is revealed. The best stories are structured to keep the viewer asking “What’s next?” as you move from one step to the next. Each step of the story should be presented in an order that increases tension. These steps form an arc. <hr/>!1.png!This is the classic curve of tension in a powerful story. Stories that follow a path of gradual rise in tension from a central question, leading to a climax where the central question is answered, and arriving at the resolution, provide a satisfying experience for the audience. <hr/>This concept comes from fictional story writing, but works well for news and journalism. If you intend to produce journalism or news stories, you must rely on facts and what material you can source, but you can still tell intriguing stories by applying this concept. It is important to weave these story components into your reporting. However, journalists must remember that we are in fact-finding business. The desire to create a compelling story structure should not influence your reporting. Story needs to serve and enhance your journalism. Your journalism should not serve the story. <hr/>In reality the arc for some stories might not reach a final climax and resolution before your deadline. You may need to identify a limited, short-term climax. In some cases, the fact there is no immediate resolution may itself be a sort of climax. For example, if despite repeated car accidents local officials do nothing to make the intersection safer.If you are working on a story that won’t resolve until after your deadline, you may opt to have a source speculate on a likely outcome or talk about the future in your narration. The main thing is to address your central question in your conclusion. <hr/>h1. QuizQuestion 1Question:True or False, I will have a strong story as long as I have the story components of Central Question and Climax?Answer 1: TrueAnswer 2: FalseCorrect Answer:2<hr/>Question 2Question:What order should I structure the components for a strong story arc?Answer 1:As long as I include all the components, my story will be fine.Answer 2:The Climax should come first, the other components don't matter.Answer 3:The story begins by introducing the Central Question, moves on to the Climax, and ends with the Resolution.Answer 4:The story begins by introducing the Climax, moves on to the Central Question, and ends with the Resolution.Correct Answer:3<hr/>Question 3Question:True or False, I can have introductory material starting the story arc, before specifying the Central Question.Answer 1:TrueAnswer 2:FalseCorrect Answer:2<hr/>Question 4Question:How can I produce a story with an arc if there is no resolution to my story at publication time? (There may be more than one answer.)Answer 1:It's ok to make a guess, as long as there is a resolution.Answer 2:I don't need to worry about it.Answer 3:I can use a short-term climax to the larger ongoing story.Answer 4:Invite a source to speculate the likely outcome.Correct Answer:2,4