h1. Problem Statement

h2. What do I do if someone is reluctant to be photographed or the circumstances are emotionally difficult for the subject or myself?

!1.png!

<hr/>

h1. Background

People are very sensitive to having their photo taken. The more difficult the circumstance of the story the more difficult it is to get a photograph. Our own biases and emotional investment in a story may result in making good choices about shooting photos difficult.

<hr/>

h1. Solution

For journalists who live in the communities they cover there are some unique challenges.

* Should I take photographs of people if they don’t want you to?
* Should I publish very graphic images of violence and death? 
* Should I help someone who is injured or photograph them?
* Should I publish images that might cast a favored individual or institution in an unfavorable light even if the image is 
truthful? 
* Should I publish images that may in some way may humanize and support a person or idea with which I strongly disagree?

Every photojournalist must make these choices- for him or herself- within the professional and ethical boundaries that journalism allows.

<hr/>

h2. Make People Comfortable

In breaking news situations journalists are typically working frantically and have little time to build rapport. But, when shooting general news events, features, or portraits, you need to warm people up. Explain how the photo will be used.- It also goes a long way to- tell people a bit about yourself. Speak to them conversationally. All of these things may help you convince people who are reluctant to be photographed. How the image might be shot and used can involve a bit of persuasion and negotiation.

<hr/>

h2. Minimizes Harm


You must always be sensitive to the impact publishing images of people will have on those portrayed. Be sensitive when shooting those affected by tragedy or grief, especially when dealing with children and people inexperienced with the media. Private people have a greater right to privacy than do public officials and others who seek power, influence or attention.

<hr/>

h2. Shoot for Options

Even if a single image is going to be presented with a story or post, you will want a variety of images from which to choose. In the case of difficult subject matter, Images need to be graphic enough to tell a story truthfully. They should not be gratuitous, when publishing graphic images, photographers need to consider the audience, the importance of the story and the impact the images will have.

<hr/>

h2. Manage your Bias

Know yourself, be aware of your biases and do not let them influence how you portray a situation or issue. Good photojournalists seek to capture the universal human elements of stories. Humanity is not defined by national boundary, tribe, politics or province.

<hr/>

h2. Your own safety

!6.mp4(Interview with a photographer about shooting in unsafe situations)!

Some situations are difficult to shoot because they are unsafe for the citizen journaliss. No photograph is worth life or injury. When shooting in dangerous situations always have an exit strategy. Be aware that soldiers and security forces may not wish to be photographed. Be smart about the risks. Mental health is part of safety too. Only you can decide your limitations. Only you can decide if and when you should put down your camera and help. You will make a much better decisions if you think through your values before you find yourself in a high-pressure situation requiring you to make a decision on the spot.

<hr/>

h1. Things to Remember

Below are the ethical guidelines published by National Press Photographers Association in the United States. It is much like professional and ethical guidelines published internationally by similar organizations.

* Be accurate and comprehensive in the representation of subjects.
* Resist being manipulated by staged photo opportunities.
* Be complete and provide context when photographing or recording subjects. Avoid stereotyping individuals and groups. Recognize and work to avoid presenting one’s own biases in the work.
* Treat all subjects with respect and dignity. Give special consideration to vulnerable subjects and compassion to victims of crime or tragedy. Intrude on private moments of grief only when the public has an overriding and justifiable need to see.
* While photographing subjects do not intentionally contribute to, alter, or seek to alter or influence events.
* Editing should maintain the integrity of the photographic images’ content and context. Do not manipulate images or add or alter sound in any way that can mislead viewers or misrepresent subjects.
* Do not pay sources or subjects or reward them materially for information or participation.
* Do not accept gifts, favors, or compensation from those who might seek to influence coverage.
* Do not intentionally sabotage the efforts of other journalists.

<hr/>

h1. Quiz

Question 1
Question:What are some thing you can do to make subjects who are reluctant to be photographed more comfortable with the idea?
Answer 1:Explain to them how the photos are to be used.
Answer 2:Point out that it is an opportunity for them to speak out on a issue that might be important to them.
Answer 3:Negotiate a bit about how the photo will be taken and perhaps used.
Answer 4:All of the above.
Correct Answer:4

<hr/>

Question 2
Question:TRUE or FALSE: It is OK to have an agenda based on your own political and personal views when deciding how to cover an event.
Answer 1:TRUE
Answer 2:FALSE
Correct Answer:2

<hr/>

Question 3
Question:Which of the following are important to keep in mind when shooting under difficult circumstances (it can be more than one).
Answer 1:A photographer needs to be sensitive to the rights of private citizens when taking their photograph.
Answer 2:You should be aware of your own personal safety.
Answer 3:Don’t take pictures that are graphic and might upset someone.
Answer 4:All of the above.
Correct Answer:1,2