h1. Problem Statement

h2. Powerful stories often illustrate a deeper meaning behind the core narrative. How do I do this in my own stories?

<hr/>

h1. Background

Powerful stories provide a deeper meaning than the basic events and facts in the narrative. They speak to the universal human experience, the fundamental challenges we all face in life. And, they do it in a way that audiences can relate to. It might be about lost love, a moral dilemma, economic struggle, triumph toward a dream, or confronting death. This is what the story is really about and is what gives a story impact.  Every good story is built on something deeper than the immediate climax.

<hr/>

h1. Solution

When the audience recognizes the deeper meaning the story has a stronger personal impact and viewers are more likely to remember it.  It is important to focus on the deeper meaning of your story and ask yourself how it will impact your audience. Ask yourself what broad human themes your story is addressing.  

Different communities will interpret deeper meaning differently. Be sure to consider your audience carefully when thinking through a specific deeper meaning to the story. If you are unclear about what your story?s deeper meaning will be to the audience, your story may not have the impact you want. 

<hr/>

h2. Examples

Here are some examples of deeper meanings of the climaxes in a variety of stories.

* In a war, soldiers are hunting a man. They threaten to burn the whole village if he does not give himself up. – Climax: He gives himself up and knows he will be killed, but the village will be saved. Deeper Meaning - “Some people put their community before themselves”. Another Deeper Meaning here is “Sometimes the few are sacrificed to save the many."
* In a presidential race a politician is considering standing against his brother. Question – will he challenge his brother?  Climax – Yes, he does enter the race.  Deeper Meaning – “Sometimes ambition is stronger than loyalty”. 
* In a local measles outbreak. Central Question – will the disease spread outside the community?  Climax – Parents cooperate, keeping all infected children in the community at home until they are all no longer infectious.  Deeper Meaning – "Sometimes we need to act together to solve problems." 

<hr/>

Whether people see the choices at climax as right/wrong, wise/foolish does not matter – everyone can recognize we as people could do this. It would be very difficult to disagree with those statements - that is what makes them deeper meanings.   

Stories and programs without a deeper meaning have little impact, and will disappear without being remembered or talked about. This is the same for factual or fictional stories. 

<hr/>

h2. Things to Remember

* All components of your story should work together to convey a deeper meaning.
* Deeper meanings are not the same as opinions, but indicate the effort to frame a story around a broader cultural or societal theme.
* Deeper meanings may differ across audiences from different social or cultural backgrounds.

<hr/>

h1. Quiz

Question 1
Question: Which of these are deeper meanings about the climax to this story? A politician who resigned due to corruption allegations fails to get re-elected. 
Answer 1:Once you lose your credibility, it can be very difficult to regain it.
Answer 2:Politicians just look after themselves.
Answer 3:The innocent are sometimes punished.
Correct Answer:1

<hr/>

Question 2
Question: Which of these are deeper meanings about the climax to this story? An injured solider is told he will never walk again. He is in a wheelchair and struggles for months until he finally takes his first steps.
Answer 1:Doctors are often wrong
Answer 2:God wanted to help him
Answer 3:Determination can bring extraordinary results. 
Correct Answer:3