h1. Problem Statement

h2. How do I adapt my coverage as the story changes?

!1.png!

<hr/>

h1. Background

Some stories are like bright flares. They burn intensely but shortly. Other stories build slowly, growing in intensity as they go. Still other stories are short-lived but illustrate ongoing social issues that warrant continued coverage.

<hr/>

!2.png!

News organizations think in terms of distinct categories for coverage. These categories help journalists take advantage of the availability of more information as time goes on. They help journalists maintain the attention of readers and viewers by providing variety in their coverage. Understanding this progression and what is expected of you will make you a better journalist.

<hr/>

Much online news coverage is short, no longer than Tweets, Facebook or microblog posts. The text is often accompanied by photos, audio or video. Still, what you post and when should be influenced by these principles. 

<hr/>

h1. Solution

h2. The breaking news story

!3.mp4(Example of a breaking news story)!

From fires to demonstrations to plane crashes, breaking news events are unplanned and require a fast response. Breaking news stories are often succinct dispatches that provide little more than basic information: who, what, where, when, why and how. Think in terms of reporting the basic facts and interviewing sources in your coverage that get to the key information immediately. Breaking news stories are sometimes referred to as first-day stories if there will be follow up coverage as the event unfolds.

<hr/>

h2. The event story

This may be a press conference, planned demonstration, opening of a new hospital, or an election. Some follow a breaking news event. One key difference from breaking stories is that journalists have the opportunity to do pre-reporting. This allows you to present more background information in your story or as links. It might also allow you time to talk to more people, perhaps including an expert voice or someone with an opposing viewpoint. Ask yourself what information and sources will help the reader better understand the relevance of the issue.

<hr/>

h2. The feature story


Feature stories are about broader trends rather than specific events. They can be about important issues such as water shortages or more light-hearted events such as holiday festivals or a story about an unusual artist. Features favor a more artful presentation than news stories. Feature stories include some description, presentations of detailed information about how the event looked or sounded or how people react.

<hr/>

h2. The profile story

A profile is a story about a person. He or she could be a politician or an athlete or a celebrity. Profile stories give us a window into the world of that person. Like features, profiles often contain description as well as quotes from the subject him or herself and perhaps from friends, family members and associates.

<hr/>

h1. Things to Remember

It should be clear from the different story types presented in this section how journalists and news organizations can present a compelling variety of coverage over time that encourages public understanding and dialogue about an issue. It should also be clear how the different types of stories can apply to longer stories, microblogging or be used with photo, video and audio journalism.

<hr/>

Together these stories and other accompanying media elements make up what is called a “package.” Understanding what elements to include in a package and when to present them is an important part of good journalism and news management.

A checklist for producing the perfect news package:
 
* What’s new and what’s now –  Mobile news and microblog  posts need to be short and informative. Get to the point and get to them quickly.  Your post should include the basic facts and most current information.
* Show and tell – Fundamentally phones are a visual medium. While some stories are tough to visualize others may lend themselves to photos, video or audio.  Choose the right media – or combination of media – to tell your story. Do not forget to keyword and tag multimedia content.
* Dateline – Be sure to present exactly where and when the post and story covered were produced.
* Links to more information – This can be a Twitter feed or a YouTube video or a link to a previous posts or links to coverage from other news outlets.
* Cite you sources – Let viewers know where your information is coming from: eyewitness accounts, an official spokesperson, your own observation or other news sources. Transparency is key.
* Cultivate contribution – Encourage people to contribute to your reporting.  Make it easy for them to comment. Promote more discussion with the goal of better information for all.

<hr/>

!8.mp4(Example of a breaking news story)!
!9.mp4(Example of a following story)!

The most important thing to remember is to present your information in a logical order for the reader -- analysis about the causes of a power outage in the capitol should not precede breaking news coverage of its immediate impact on the public. But, as the storyline evolves, it is important to continue to make basic, background or contextual information available.

<hr/>

h1. Quiz

Question 1
Question:Which of the following are characteristics of a good news analysis story? (It can be more than one.)
Answer 1:The journalist’s opinion is clear
Answer 2:The presentation of information shows only one point of view, one side of the story
Answer 3:While the presentation may present a point of view, it makes a fact-based argument for that point of view
Answer 4:The reader does not realize that it is an analysis/opinion piece rather than hard news
Correct Answer:1,3

<hr/>

Question 2
Question:TRUE of FALSE: As a story moves from first-day coverage to deeper, more investigative coverage, it is important to provide contextual information in your presentation that reminds readers of the basic facts of the issue.
Answer 1:TRUE
Answer 2:FALSE
Correct Answer:1

<hr/>

Question 3
Question:The categories of stories presented here are important because:
Answer 1:They are a roadmap for how journalists can present more information as a story evolves over time
Answer 2:The provide variety of presentation that helps keep a reader interested in topic over time
Answer 3:Clear categories give reporters and news organization a way to talk about stories and plan long-term coverage
Answer 4:All of the above
Correct Answer:4