h1. Problem Statement

h2. How can I use symbols in my story?

<hr/>

h1. Background

Any good story makes use of symbols.  A symbol is anything that has powerful associated meaning for people. It can be an object, action, name or event.  Symbols often mean different things to different people, particularly for people from different societies or cultures.  To make our stories powerful you should include visual symbols. Audiences understand them emotionally and quickly. Symbols alone can tell great stories. 

<hr/>

h1. Solution

One way to tell great stories is through following the changing meaning of symbols.  For example, in the first days after the 2011 revolution in Libya, graffiti covered the walls of the nation’s largest cities. At first this graffiti stood as a symbol of hope, and the desires of Libya’s new generation. That same graffiti now stands as a symbol of the lost hope and foolish dreams of Libya’s people.

Sometimes symbols are powerful precisely because they endure. An image of a mountain that remains unchanged after an earthquake or a statue of a great cultural figure from long ago. 

<hr/>

Too often news stories portray information in only a literal way. The reporter doesn’t consider how to convey the information or tell a story in a more visually compelling way through symbols. Visual content presented without thought to the power of symbolism can be simplistic. This lack of depth is a primary reason news can seem dull and uninteresting. 

It is important not to fall into the trap of over using symbols or using them in ways that are clichéd or might be interpreted as propaganda. It is also important to remember people understand symbols in different ways.

<hr/>

Here are some examples of symbols and how they change as the story develops.

* In a war, soldiers are hunting a man. The village hides him, but is threatened with destruction if he does not come out. Before he gives up, he symbolises selfishness – he is willing for the whole village to suffer just for him. When he gives up and saves the village, he symbolises bravery and generosity.   

* In a presidential race a politician considers standing against his brother. When the politician speaks in favour of his brother he symbolises loyalty.  When he declares his own candidacy he symbolises betrayal. 

* A football player who scores the cup-winning goal symbolises a hero. When he is exposed as a wife-beater, he is seen as a coward.  

<hr/>

h1. QUIZ

Question 1
Question:A politician who resigns due to corruption allegations stands for re-election. He symbolises:
Answer 1:Arrogance. 
Answer 2:The electoral system.
Answer 3:Punishment.
Correct Answer:1

<hr/>

Question 2
Question:An injured solider is told he will never walk again, struggles for months and takes his first steps. He symbolises:
Answer 1: A miracle
Answer 2: Bad doctors
Answer 3: Determination
Correct Answer: 3