h1. Problem Statement

h2. I've never recorded an audio story, what are the basics I should know?

!1.png!

<hr/>

h1. Background

!2.png!

Recording audio is not as complicated as shooting video or photos, but it requires basic technical knowledge, combined with a good plan for telling a story using only sound. Because there is no image, you must compensate for this by creating a theater for the mind. Clear and interesting sound can paint a good picture in the mind of anyone who listens. The trick is to present those sounds in the best possible way to create a compelling mental picture.

<hr/>

h1. Solution

h2. General Guidelines

!4.mp3(Example of how to record pre-roll and post-roll)!

Whether you are recording an interview, a report, or capturing ambient sounds to use in your story, one simple but important point is to ensure you are recording at a good level. The last thing you want is to think that you've recorded something usable for your final story and learn you didn't record anything or missed a piece, or your levels were so bad the recording is not understandable. Before you hit record, consider wearing headphones to monitor the recording as it is happening. Test the level before you record, make sure it is neither too loud or too quiet, and that sharp or sudden sounds won't cause the recording to over modulate. Once you are recording, be sure to wait a few seconds before speaking, and do the same before you hit the button to pause or stop recording, give it a few extra seconds of silence.

<hr/>

h2. Using audio sources

You are painting a picture and creating the story in the mind of a listener. You can paint that picture using many sources of audio, including people's voices, the sounds of an event, your own (dynamic and emotional) voice explaining or narrating a story, and of course sounds that set the scene for whatever your topic. Any given topic can have multiple sources of audio that when used together will tell a great story that listeners will be able to see and feel.

<hr/>

h1. Things to Remember

* Make sure you have hit record in a timely fashion allowing a few seconds of silence before speaking.
* Monitor your audio level using headphones throughout the recording.
* Set the audio level before you start recording the important audio, make sure the level is a good balance between too high and too low.
* Use multiple sources of audio to tell your story. Find different sounds and quotes that will help tell your story, the challenge is to use your own voice as little as possible and tell the story through the voices of others.

<hr/>

h1. Quiz

Question 1
Question:What should I do to make sure my audio levels are correct?
Answer 1:Have headphones on during the recording.
Answer 2:Do a test recording before you begin.
Answer 3:If you have an audio level setting, adjust it accordingly. 
Answer 4:All of the Above
Correct Answer:4

<hr/>

Question 2
Question:Can a good story have more than one audio source?
Answer 1:No
Answer 2:Yes
Answer 3:Yes, but only two sources maximum
Correct Answer:2

<hr/>

Question 3
Question:Why should you hit record and wait five seconds before you begin speaking?
Answer 1:To give you five seconds to remember your questions.
Answer 2:To make your story more interesting.
Answer 3:To ensure that you don't cut off the beginning of your recording. 
Correct Answer:3