h1. Problem Statement

h2. How can I transmit my media safely?

<hr>

h1. Background

Transmitting your content will be among the highest security risks you take in the process of producing your story. We’ll walk you through a couple of methods for transferring your content digitally.

h1. Solution

[THIS IS ALL REALLY COMPLEX STUFF, WHY ARE YOU GOING ALL EXPERT HERE? AND WHY ARE YOU FOCUSING ON DESKTOPS INSTEAD OF MOBILE? THIS NEEDS TO BE REWORKED]

*DIGITAL DIRECT TRANSFERS*
Sending your content over secure servers you own or are owned and operated by your trusted contacts is a great option. This keeps the content private even when it’s finished transmitting. It’s important to have trusted colleagues, however, who can take that content for you and be sure that it is posted online and promoted.

See this list of tools for maintaining privacy and anonymity when transferring files.

(LINK TO DYNAMIC LIST OF BEST TOOLS)

*Essential Security Features*:
FTP Software: Use SFTP
Use VPN
Email Software: PGP

Other services that have these features could be good options.

*DIGITAL FILE SHARING SITES*

File sharing sites are another option to send files directly to individuals helping you from outside of your location. Be sure to keep your file names as anonymous as possible while doing this. Come up with nondescript file names, e.g. “Clip_001” “File_001”, with the # adding up for each file you send.

*Essential Security Features:*

* SSL
* AES-256 encryption

If you find a service that has these options it is like to be an acceptable option.

SSL alone does not guarantee a secure connection. If the SSL certificate is not signed properly, your data may be intercepted without your knowledge.

If you use your real name or primary email, others may be able to determine your identity. If you do not use an anonymity network, the ISP or others may be able to determine the files shared came from your computer.

See this list of tools for maintaining privacy and anonymity when using file-sharing sites.

(LINK TO DYNAMIC LIST OF BEST TOOLS)

h1. When to Use / When Not to


h1. Multimedia Details

Multimedia 1

Type:
Location in the text:
Script (if necessary):
Detailed Description:

Multimedia 2

Type:
Location in the text:
Script (if necessary):
Detailed Description:

Multimedia 3

Type:
Location in the text:
Script (if necessary):
Detailed Description:

Multimedia 4

Type:
Location in the text:
Script (if necessary):
Detailed Description:

h1. Test

Concept: Quiz

Question 1

Question: I can transfer media securely via..
Answer 1: an anonymous email account.
Answer 2: an ftp server.
Answer 3: any transfer service that provides AE256 encryption and SSL with a properly signed certificate.
Answer 4: http://wetransfer.com
Correct Answer: Answer 3

Question 2

Question: When using a file-sharing site, I may be identified if
Answer 1: the connection does not require a properly signed SSL certificate.
Answer 2: I use my real name and/or primary email.
Answer 3: my IP address is logged by the ISP.
Answer 4: the receiver does not protect my identity.
Correct Answer: ALL answer 1,2,3,4

Number of Questions to pass the Quiz: 3