h1. Problem Statement

h2. What is White Balance?

!5.12.1.a.png!

<hr>

h1. Background

(
!5.12.2.a.png(Example of a subject lit by a tungesten bulb)!
caption: Example of a subject lit by a tungesten bulb

!5.12.2.b.png(Example of a subject lit outdoors when it's cloudy)!
caption: Example of a subject lit outdoors when it's cloudy

!5.12.2.c.png(Example of a subject lit outdoors in the sun)!
caption: Example of a subject lit outdoors in the sun
)

Different sources of light produce light of different color temperatures. Artificial lighting such as lightbulbs used in the home produce light with an orange tint to it. Daylight has a blue tint to it.

<hr>

(
!5.12.3.a.png(Example of a professional colored photo)!
caption: Example of a professional colored photo

!5.12.3.b.png(Example of an unacceptable colored photo)!
caption: Example of an unacceptable colored photo
)

Our eyes adjust to these color shifts, but cameras need to adjust a setting called “white balance” so the images will appear the way our eyes see them naturally.

The term white balance refers to shifting the color in the image so that anything white in the frame will appear as a neutral white, with no tint.

<hr>

!5.12.4.a.png(A common Auto White Balance icon)!
caption: A common Auto White Balance icon

Most cameras have an automatic white balance that will register the color temperature of the prevailing source of light and make the necessary adjustments without adjusting anything at all.

<hr>

!5.12.5.a.png(Icons for the common white balance options)!
caption: Icons for the common white balance options

Some cameras have pre-set white balance options to cope with different types of lighting such as daylight or indoor or incandescent light.

<hr>

Remember to to reset the white balance option if the lighting conditions change. If you come from outside and begin recording inside without adjusting your white balance setting, your pictures will be very orange. If you are recording indoors and go outside to shoot without adjusting the white balance, you will end up with very blue pictures.

<hr>

!5.12.7.a.png(A common Auto White Balance icon)!
caption: A common Auto White Balance icon

h2. AWB (Auto White Balance)

Used for shooting anywhere. Camera does its best to guess what the right setting should be. Can provide poor results if camera guesses wrong. This is the setting you should use if you’re unsure of which of these is the best to go with.

This setting may be the most effective if you have strong artificial and natural light sources in your frame.

<hr>

!5.12.8.a.png(A common Daylight White Balance icon)!
caption: A common Daylight White Balance icon

h2. Daylight

Used for shooting outdoors. This setting will give your images a very “cool” or a slight blue tint to them. When shooting indoors, images will have an orange tint.

<hr>

!5.12.8.a.png(A common Cloudy White Balance icon)!
caption: A common Cloudy White Balance icon

h2. Cloudy

Used for shooting outdoors. This setting will give your images a slightly “warmer” color to them. While the daylight option is technically the more correct white balance, using the cloudy setting gives a very appealing image.

When shooting indoors, this setting will give your images a strong orange tint.

<hr>

!5.12.8.a.png(A common Incandescent White Balance icon)!
caption: A common Incandescent White Balance icon

h2. Incandescent

Used for shooting indoors, with traditional small light bulbs. When shooting outdoors, images will have a strong blue tint."

<hr>

!5.12.8.a.png(A common Fluorescent White Balance icon)!
caption: A common Fluorescent White Balance icon

h2. Fluorescent

For shooting indoors, with the long tube fluorescent lights. When shooting outdoors, images will have a blue tint.

<hr>

h1. Things to Remember

!5.12.12.a.mp4(How to use a piece of paper to manually set the white balance)!
caption: How to use a piece of paper to manually set the white balance

If you are unsure what setting you should use, you can set the white balance yourself by holding a white piece of paper in front of your camera. A white wall or white material can also work. This will make the camera adjust into the correct white balance for the circumstances and ensure your images have the correct color temperature.

<hr>

If you are using the Auto White Balance setting, point your camera at the intended subject, and wait 3-5 seconds before you begin recording. This will improve the automatic correction.

<hr>

Always update your White Balance setting when you move to a different lighting situation.

<hr>

Question 1

Question: What color tint does daylight give?

Answer 1: Orange
Answer 2: Black
Answer 3: Red
Answer 4: Blue

Correct Answer: 4

<hr>

Question 2

Question: What color tint does artificial light give?

Answer 1: Orange
Answer 2: Red
Answer 3: Blue
Answer 4: Black

Correct Answer: 1

<hr>

Question 3

Question: If I don’t know what setting to use, what should I do?

Answer 1: Ignore it
Answer 2: Use Auto White Balance
Answer 3: Use Incandescent
Answer 4: Use Cloudy

Correct Answer: 2

<hr>

Question 4

Question: If you are filming outside with an appropriate white balance, what color will your image become when you go inside?
Answer 1: Blue
Answer 2: Green
Answer 3: Orange
Answer 4: Purple

Correct Answer: 3

<hr>

Question 5

!5.12.19.a.mp4!
Question: The white balance setting is wrong in this shot. Which setting should have been used?

Answer 1: Cloudy
Answer 2: Daylight
Answer 3: It's actually set correctly.
Answer 4: Fluorescent

Correct Answer: 4