h1. بيان بالمشكلة

h2. I have my mobile phone and I'm ready to record, what can I do to make sure the recording comes out well?

!3.6.1.a.png!

<hr/>

h1. خلفية

Recording audio is easy, but there are many ways to ruin the recording so that it is unusable. To ensure this does not happen to you, practice these simple steps while you are recording an interview, or your own narration of a story. Following these steps may prevent an audio problem before it happens. Because once your audio is recorded badly, it is extremely difficult to save it.

<hr/>

h1. الحل

h2. Handling Noise and Grip

!3.6.3.b.png!

!3.6.3.a.mp3(Example of handling noise)!

When preparing to record, hold your device in a way that is comfortable and natural. Hold the device without applying much pressure, a manner that you can hold for an extended period of time.

<hr/>

!3.6.4.a.png!

If you must hold the recording device up to the person throughout the interview, rest your elbow on a solid surface. It is best to sit down, rest your elbow on the table and extend your arm toward the audio source.

If there is a table between you and the person you are interviewing, you can set the recorder on a table, but take care no one touches, taps, or bangs the table, this may cause contact noise.

<hr/>

!3.6.5.a.png!

There are several types of stands that fit handheld recorders or even smart phones, to hold them in place during the interview. You can make your own using materials you have anything you can rest the recorder on that keeps it as face level with your audio source will do.

<hr/>

h2. Hums and Background Noise

!3.6.6.a.mp3(Example of air conditioning sound)!

Detecting air conditioning sounds and other machine sounds that can ruin your audio recording should be done before you press record. When you arrive at the location, take notice of any and all sounds even those that seem harmless. Ask if machines causing noise can be turned off, or suggest a change of location for the sake of the audio quality. Most people will understand and trust your expertise on the subject.

<hr/>

!3.6.7.a.png!

Hold the microphone a bit under the mouth of the interviewee so that the airstream coming out of his or her mouth will not create HISS or POP sounds in the recording.


<hr/>

!3.6.8.a.png!

Remember to monitor your recording using headphones, they will help you notice any disruptive sounds that you may not have considered before.

<hr/>

h2. Backup and Store Files

!3.6.9.a.png!

Once you have your audio recorded, unless you upload it immediately to the internet, there is always a risk that your audio files will get lost, damaged or deleted. It is therefore very important to offload your recordings as soon as possible to your computer and even better, store a copy on an external hard drive. Professional media makers often have multiple backups of their content just in case their computer or one of their backup drives is damaged.

<hr/>

!3.6.10.a.png!

Remember to also keep your audio files labeled and organized. StoryMaker allows you to make notes on individual clips, this function can help you remember important details. Choose a name that includes the title of the project and some other identifiable label that tells you what part of the project it is.

<hr/>

h1. أشياء يجب أن تتذكرها

* Always consider how long you will have to hold your recorder steady before you begin an interview. For longer interviews, find a comfortable way to sit or stand, that also keeps you from having to change your grip.
* Make use of surfaces, especially something that can be used as a stand, to rest the recorder at an acceptable distance from the audio source.
* Look and listen for background sounds that could harm the quality of your recording when you first arrive at an interview or recording location.
* Keep your audio files backed up and correctly labeled.

<hr/>

h1. Quiz

Question 1
Question:What is handling noise?
Answer 1:The music of a famous composer.
Answer 2:The interrupting background sound of an air conditioner.
Answer 3:Disruptive sounds caused by your own hand changing its grip or moving while holding a recorder.
Answer 4:Handling noise, ie turning off noisy machines.
Correct Answer:3

<hr/>

Question 2
Question:Which of the following can be used to prevent handling noise and keep your arm or recorder stable during a recording?
Answer 1:Table
Answer 2:Mic Stand
Answer 3:A Wall
Answer 4:All of the Above.
Correct Answer:4

<hr/>

Question 3
Question:When should you address the problem of air conditioning sounds or other machines?
Answer 1:When you arrive at a location, before you start recording.
Answer 2:In the middle of the interview.
Answer 3:During the editing process.
Answer 4:Turn off all machines 24 hours before your interview.
Correct Answer:1

<hr/>

Question 4
Question:Which is NOT a good strategy for protecting your data after recording?
Answer 1:Keep the file on your smart phone and never copy it anywhere else.
Answer 2:Copy it to your computer and an external hard drive.
Answer 3:Upload it to the internet somewhere where you can access it later.
Answer 4:Email a copy of the file to yourself.
Correct Answer:1